I do right now they'll want to bring in
Bill Ackman on the phone he took the
Twitter today to urge the President to
take more dramatic measures to stop the
spread of the virus bill I thank you for
joining us today thank you a number of
ideas you put forth I'm gonna read one
of them for our viewers to start mr.
president the only answer is to shut
down the country for the next 30 days
and close the border as you say tell all
Americans that you are putting us on an
extended spring break at home with
family keeping only essential services
open the government pays wages until we
reopen I know from our conversations
that you have been worried for some time
what how did it manifest today with
these tweets and going public maybe just
a little bit of context you know I'm an
optimist but beginning in I don't know
late January I was getting increasingly
bearish and I woke up with a nightmare
and my nightmare was you have this virus
that replicates and insects incredibly
rapidly you know each person infects two
and half people each of them affect 2
and half people you know one becomes 2 2
becomes 4 4 becomes 16 16 to 56 65,000
you get to just massive massive numbers
and watching this thing roll out in
China it kills you know one to two
percent of the people in China the
numbers been closer to four people think
that's because the health systems been
overwhelmed but one to two percent means
friends and family are going to die the
concentration was the effect were sort
of older people older people with longer
cardiac conditions I have a father is
almost 81 he's you know he's got yeah
lung cancer he lost two-thirds of his
lung capacity as a result of surgery got
some health issues and you have a virus
thing that really scared me is unlike
the flu or when you're sick you know you
have it here you go as much as two weeks
without showing any symptoms or maybe a
little bit of a cold meanwhile you're
incredibly infectious and I thought the
combination of that the fact that this
the virus lives on surfaces for as much
as you know nine days if we believe what
we're reading means this thing can
spread everywhere and when China shut
down Wuhan they told people you know 12
hours from now we're going to shut down
Wuhan well what happened five million
people left one and 5 million people
dispersed
around China and five million people
dispersed around the world and it seeded
the virus and I think people are just
not used to thinking about exponential
compounding on a daily basis in the
beginning you don't see anything and I
think the fact it was it sort of people
repressed reports that it only killed
old people it only killed sick people I
think it made most of the country not
particularly concerned I think the fact
that you know 99% of the people lived
made most of the people not concerned
the fact that it was in China and was
like far away and you know Chinese have
unusual dietary that you know have a
seat some things we don't eat I just
think all of these things made people
not take it seriously but you know when
I did the math I said you know the laws
of probability tell me this thing is
going to be everywhere every one fifty
percent of the world is going to get
infected and I sort of rolled this thing
forward and I said it's just it's just a
matter of time do you take comfort in in
some of the steps that have been taken
it certainly appears as though our
response now from a federal level is
much better than it was initially I
think we can all admit and and take
comfort that it is ramped up now what
about the steps that have been taken the
city in which you live is considering a
shelter in-home declaration I think
Governor Cuomo has done a superb job and
I think the White House the president
the vice president are finally doing
taking a lot of the necessary steps but
it's not enough and the reason why it's
not enough is the only way what's going
to happen if we continue the way we are
operating is until a vaccine is
manufactured distributed and injected we
will go through a depression-era period
in the country and millions of people
will die around the globe and as many as
a million Americans are gonna die and
it's just math okay and the problem is
if you lock down New York what will
happen is Governor Cuomo will say okay
we're locking down New York you know
there was a rumor of that so what did
everyone do everyone got out of New York
moves went somewhere else because they
didn't no one wants to be locked out and
they and they spread the virus and
they're not doing it you know to cause
anyone harm they just don't even know
that they're infected and by the way you
look at the data from Korea there's some
very interesting evidence that suggests
that people from 20 to 30 are the
massive spreaders you know the so called
are not you know the reproduction number
of the virus I think is much higher
particularly in that group of people so
you have a group of people that are you
know 20 to 30 the Millennials they're
going out there having fun they don't
feel sick not afraid of anything and
they are spreading this everywhere and
by the way when the college is shut down
they all go on spring break and they
spread it everywhere and so I think
there's a very high probability that
millions of Americans have the virus and
I'll give you some interesting you know
anecdotal data points so we took very
aggressive measures at Pershing Square
you know cuz I was obviously very
bearish on this on February 27th I told
the firm that we're going to work from
home we have a small firm we've got 50
people we already have two people and
again we've been working from home for
three weeks we have two people out of 50
that are likely to have the corona virus
based on their symptoms we're waiting
for outcomes in one case for a test yet
the other one is not in a can't get a
test or is in a place where it's more
difficult for them to get a test but you
know it's kind of 4% of our company
taking aggressive aggressive measures so
it's incredibly widespread its deadly
and as we heard on the president's
announcement and this is if you actually
track foul twitter this was out a few
days ago it's killing young people
it's killing healthy people right I
think if originally what happened if
this broke out in New York and it was
killing babies okay the country would
not have taken the approach it is taken
okay but that is the approach that we
have to take assume it's gonna kill your
child
okay let's assume it's got a 1 in 50
chance of killing your child and operate
accordingly so this the very simple
answer is and by the way it's happening
but you know the the mental model I used
is by February Chinatown in my view as a
microcosm for the country what happened
in Chinatown well the one thing people
did is they stopped going to Chinatown
because they were afraid of you know
well maybe people coming home from China
and then you want to eat Chinese food
it's a Chinatown you know restaurant
revenues went down 50 60 70 80 percent
what happens well the Busboys loses this
job the guy doing dishes the waiters
lose their job the the number-two chef
the chef you know that the owner has to
shut the place the supplier stop you
know providing supplies right the banks
that lend to that community start
getting defaulted on loans every
landlord in china has gotten a call from
their tenant who says I'm sorry I can't
pay rent
I have no revenues coming in and I said
look this is a model for the country and
that's happening now right the canary in
the coal mine and by the way it's not
just and the other thing that happens of
course the entrepreneur that owns ten
Chinese restaurants in Chinatown
okay he's also devastated so it starts
with the bottom and it works its way
through to the top okay and the same
things happening right now in our
country right it starts with the guy who
owns a Embassy Suites Hotel okay he's
wiped out all right you've got you know
when you go from eighty percent occupied
to zero okay you're toast you've got to
go down to 50 percent you're toast but
you're certainly toast when you go to
zero so he defaults but now you know
take a look at Hilton stock we're a
major shareholder of Hilton Hilton is
the canary in the coal mine this is an
incredibly well capitalized amazing
dominant global company that actually
doesn't know many hotels it just
collects royalties down from like 120
250 okay it's going to zero okay along
with every other hotel company in the
world you know Park hotels and resorts
you know stocks down from thirty three
or four this is a spinoff from Hilton
why is it it's down from thirty three to
four because every hotel is going to be
shut down in the country everyone hang
hang on just one second you say Hilton
is going to zero I mean I know again I'm
a major shareholder what I'm saying is
if we allow this to continue the way we
allow it to continue okay every hotel
company in the world okay it's done okay
because no business can survive a period
of 18 months without revenue okay and
that's it stick with me and that's what
happens okay when if you operate the way
we're operating now okay now let me give
you so that's a very very
thought okay and I've been super bearish
but I got bullish okay and the reason
why I got bullish and I've been
aggressively buying stocks including
Hilton today okay and I've been buying
all the way down
Hilton restaurant brands Starbucks you
know walk your way through our police
talks and not buy our companies were on
the board and I'm restricted but the
reason why is the only answer for the
world is to shut the world for 30 days
okay it's in so simple okay and it's
happening it's happening slowly on a
rolling basis country by country but if
you take the model from China what do we
learn from China
the thing that out of control they had
no warning okay but the Chinese took
incredibly aggressive measures and they
shut the economy they absolute the
economy in Wuhan the shut the economy
anywhere there was a virus and they shot
the economy for weeks and then they
gradually reopening the economy and the
Chinese are incredibly disciplined and
they wear max masks they practice social
distancing and they're you know
President Xi is now toggling between
controlling a spread of the virus and
reopening the economy okay and that can
work and you look at what how kuru South
Korea has handled this and how
Singapore's handled this but you need a
global effort where every country in the
world at the same time says for the next
30 days
it's basically spend time with your
family I you know my Twitter feed I like
their good night last time a tweet is
probably a couple years ago yeah I said
president all that has to happen is the
president goes on TV by the way doesn't
need anyone else by him side he goes on
TV he sits down with you know in front
of American people and he says here's
what we need to do to defeat the virus
we got an invisible silent deadly enemy
okay how do we kill it everyone just
goes home I hit on a couch the sick one
for a second it's no the couch you watch
Netflix you ordered if you order in
Chipotle and you stay there for a month
and you spend time with your loved ones
okay and the virus will die okay and
during that period of time the federal
government steps in and supports every
American that needs help okay we have a
hot you know rent holiday no one needs
to collect any rent
no one needs to collect any interest no
one needs to collect any taxes the
government you know mails checks to
people too so that people can pay for
food
you keep grocery stores open you create
this you know the drugstores open you
know we keep fast-food open because
people get tired of mom's cooking after
a couple weeks and then you you know
anyone who's out in the public domain
where it's masks minimizes interactions
and in a month we're done with this and
by the way the country survives the
economy survives if we do this we're
just incrementally over time until
there's a vaccine we're done okay
and what will happen is the hotel
industry and the restaurant industry
will go bankrupt first Boeing is you
know on the brink okay Boeing will not
survive without a government bailout
okay so look at airline industry auto
industry restaurant industry hotel
industry you know we're capitalism does
not work in an 18-month shutdown
capitalism can work in a 30-day shutdown
and we got to do the 38 shutdown and if
the president has to bring out the
National Guard to keep people in their
homes which I don't think you will need
to do you should do it
you